update vsce reg flow oauth [to merge next week 12/15] (#8298)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/snippets/_install-dbt-extension.md

| Prerequisite | Details |
| --- | --- |
| **<Constant name="fusion_engine" />**  | The [dbt VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbtLabsInc.dbt&ssr=false#overview) requires the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> binary (a small executable program). The extension will prompt you to install it, or you can [install it manually](#install-fusion-manually) at any time. <br /><br />[Register your email](#register-the-extension) within 14 days of installing the dbt extension.  Free for up to 15 users.  |

> | **Project files** | - You need a `profiles.yml` configuration file.<br /><br />⁃ You _may_ need to [download](#register-with-dbt_cloudyml) a `dbt_cloud.yml` file depending on your [registration path](#choose-your-registration-path).<br /><br />⁃ You don't need a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project to use the extension. |

Reviewer: much clearer!

> | **Project files** | - You need a `profiles.yml` configuration file (can be created during [getting started](#getting-started)).<br /><br />⁃ You _may_ need to [download](#register-with-dbt_cloudyml) a `dbt_cloud.yml` file depending on your [registration path](#choose-your-registration-path).<br /><br />⁃ You don't need a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project to use the extension. |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Project files** | - You need a `profiles.yml` configuration file.<br /><br />⁃ You _may_ need to [download](#register-with-dbt_cloudyml) a `dbt_cloud.yml` file depending on your [registration path](#choose-your-registration-path).<br /><br />⁃ You don't need a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project to use the extension. |
```

6. (Optional) If you're new to the extension or VS Code/Cursor, you [can set your local environment](/docs/configure-dbt-extension) to mirror your <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> environment and [set any environment variables](/docs/configure-dbt-extension#configure-environment-variables) locally to use the VS Code extension features.

You're all set up with the dbt extension! The next steps are:
- Follow the [getting started](#getting-started) section to begin the terminal onboarding workflow and configure your set up. If you encounter any parsing errors, you can also run the [`dbt-autofix` tool](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-autofix?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) to resolve them.
- <Expandable alt_header="Install the dbt Fusion engine from the command line, if you haven't already.">

>     <FusionManualInstall />

Reviewer: Nice!

>   3. Follow the [getting started](/docs/install-dbt-extension#getting-started) guide to get started with the extension. You can get started by either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Follow the [getting started](/docs/install-dbt-extension#getting-started) guide to get started with the extension. You can get started using one of these methods:
```

>       - Running `dbtf init` to use terminal onboarding,

Reviewer: We usually just use periods
```suggestion
      - Running `dbtf init` to use terminal onboarding.
```

>       - Running **Run dbt: Register dbt extension** in the command palette,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Running **Run dbt: Register dbt extension** in the command palette.
```

4. After verification, return to the browser flow to complete sign‑in.
5. You'll return to the editor and see **Registered**.
6. Continue with the [Get started](#getting-started) onboarding workflow and get your dbt project up and running.

**Note:** You do not need a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project to register; this only creates your dbt account.

### Existing account sign-in {#existing-dbt-account}

Use this if you have an existing dbt account &mdash; including older or inactive accounts. dbt automatically detects your account and `dbt_cloud.yml` file if it exists (no file download needed). Use to easily work across machines.

1. Click the registration prompt or open the command palette and type: **dbt: Register dbt extension.**
2. In the browser registration form, select **Sign in** at the bottom of the form.
3. Enter your email address associated with your dbt account and click **Continue**. If you don't remember your password, see [Recover your login](#recover-your-login) for help.
4. You'll then have the option to select your existing dbt account.
5. Select the account you want to use and click **Continue**.

> 5. You should see a page confirming your successful registration. Close the tab and go back to your editor to continue the registration.

Author: i _think_ we might be able to redirect the user back based on [this update](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C09S2UNSZ1A/p1765549819148229?thread_ts=1765469539.345929&cid=C09S2UNSZ1A)
```suggestion
6. You should automatically be redirected to the editor and see **`Registered`**. If you're not redirected, click on the redirect link in the browser to complete the registration.
```

> 5. You should see a page confirming your successful registrataion. Close the tab and go back to your editor to continue the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
5. You should see a page confirming your successful registration. Close the tab and go back to your editor to continue the registration.
```

**When you might still need a `dbt_cloud.yml`:**
- You want a file-based credential for automations.
- You're on the free Developer plan and your workflow needs a local credential file for defer.
- Your region requires it (for example, regions like `eu1` or `us2`).

#### Recover your login 

Choose this path if the registration form tells you your email already exists but you don't remember your password or your account is locked.

To reset your password and sign in through the OAuth flow:

1. On the sign-in screen, click **Forgot password**.
2. Enter the email associated with your dbt account.
3. Check your inbox and reset your password.
4. Return to the sign in screen in the browser and complete the sign-in process.
5. If you've signed in, you will then have the option to select your existing dbt account.
6. Select the account you want to use and click **Continue**.

> 7. You should see a page confirming your successful registration. Close the tab and go back to your editor to continue the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
7. You should automatically be redirected to the editor and see **`Registered`**. If you're not redirected, click on the redirect link in the browser to complete the registration.
```

> 7. You should see a page confirming your successful registrataion. Close the tab and go back to your editor to continue the registration.

Author: ```suggestion
7. You should see a page confirming your successful registration. Close the tab and go back to your editor to continue the registration.
```

Once the upgrade is completed, you're ready to dive into all the features that the <Constant name="fusion_engine" /> has to offer!

## Register the extension
After downloading the extension and installing the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, you must register the dbt VS Code extension within 14 days of installing it (or re-installing it). 

> **Key points:**

Reviewer: Could we call these "prerequisites" to be consistent with other areas of the docs?

Author: do you mean the key points? they're not really prerequisites though - more like considerations or good to know?

- The extension is free for organizations for up to 15 users (see the [acceptable use policy](https://www.getdbt.com/dbt-assets/vscode-plugin-aup)).
- Registration links your editor to a dbt account so you can keep using the extension beyond the grace period.
- This _does not_ require a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project — just a dbt account.
- If a valid `dbt_cloud.yml` file exists on your machine, the extension will automatically use it and skip login.
- If you already have a dbt account (even from years ago), you will be directed into an OAuth sign-in flow.

<Expandable alt_header="Understanding regions">

> Most users can sign in from the extension's browser registration page for the default `US1` region. If that works, you have an account in the default region and don't need to know other [regions](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most users can sign in from the extension's browser registration page for the default `US1` region. If that works, you have an account in the default region and don't need to consider other [regions](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses).
```

Use a credential file (`dbt_cloud.yml`) instead of sign-in when:

> - You can't sign in,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can't sign in.
```

> - Your organization uses a non-default region (`eu1`, `us2`, and so on), or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your organization uses a non-default region (`eu1`, `us2`, and so on).
```

- You prefer file-based credentials.

If you're unsure whether you have a `US1` account from the past, try signing in or using **Forgot password** at [us1.dbt.com](http://us1.dbt.com). If nothing comes up, continue with [Register with `dbt_cloud.yml`](#register-with-dbt_cloudyml).
</Expandable>

#### Choose your registration path

Your dbt VS Code extension registration path depends on your situation. Select the one that applies to you:

> - **New to dbt and never created a dbt account?** → Use [First-time registration](#first-time-registration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New to dbt and never created a dbt account?** → Use [First-time registration](#first-time-registration).
```

> - **Have an existing dbt account and can sign in?** → Use [Existing dbt account](#existing-dbt-account)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Have an existing dbt account and can sign in?** → Use [Existing dbt account](#existing-dbt-account).
```

> - **Have an existing dbt account and can sign in?** → Use [Existing dbt account](#existing-dbt-account) (recommended)

Author: ```suggestion
- **Have an existing dbt account and can sign in?** → Use [Existing dbt account](#existing-dbt-account)
```

> - **Email already exists / can’t sign in?** (locked, forgot password) → Use [Recover your login](#recover-your-login)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Email already exists or can’t sign in?** (locked, forgot password) → Use [Recover your login](#recover-your-login).
```

> - **Can't sign in OR your organization uses a non-default region** (`eu1`, `us2`) → Use [Register with `dbt_cloud.yml`](#register-with-dbt_cloudyml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Can't sign in or your organization uses a non-default region** (`eu1`, `us2`) → Use [Register with `dbt_cloud.yml`](#register-with-dbt_cloudyml).
```

> ---

Reviewer: We're inconsistently using these lines. Should we remove in favor of H1, H2, H3 etc?

Author: i see what you mean! i used the divider to try to make a clear cut/start for each h3 nested in the h2. but i can remove them!

### First-time registration

Use this if you've _never_ created a dbt account before. What you'll do: Open the command, enter your name and email, verify the email, and you're done 🎉!

1. Click the registration prompt or open the command palette (Ctrl + Shift + P (Windows/Linux) or Cmd + Shift + P (macOS)) and run: **dbt: Register dbt extension**.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/extension/registration-prompt.png" width="70%" title="The extension registration prompt in VS Code."/>
2. In the browser registration form, enter your name and email, then click **Continue**.
3. Check your inbox for a verification email and click the verification link.
4. After verification, return to the browser flow to complete sign‑in.
5. You'll return to the editor and see **Registered**.
6. Continue with the [Get started](#getting-started) onboarding workflow and get your dbt project up and running.

**Note:** You do not need a <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> project to register; this only creates your dbt account.

---

> ### Existing account sign-in (recommended) {#existing-dbt-account}

Author: ```suggestion
### Existing account sign-in {#existing-dbt-account}
```

Use this if you have an existing dbt account &mdash; including older or inactive accounts.

> What you'll do: Start registration → sign in through the OAuth flow → return to VS Code.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this. We don't usually give a recap of steps before them and it seems excessive.
```suggestion
```

Author: ok no worries! i was trying something new and 'writing for ai' more than anything!

> 1. Click the registration prompt or open the command palette and run: dbt: Register dbt extension.

Reviewer: I can't get this to work. Should it be exactly what's bolded below? 
```suggestion
1. Click the registration prompt or open the command palette and type: **dbt: Register dbt extension.**
```

Author: yes that's right!

2. In the browser registration form, select **Sign in** at the bottom of the form.
3. Enter your email address associated with your dbt account and click **Continue**. If you don't remember your password, see [Recover your login](#recover-your-login) for help.
4. You'll then have the option to select your existing dbt account.
5. Select the account you want to use and click **Continue**.
5. You should automatically be redirected to the editor and see **`Registered`**. If you're not redirected, click on the redirect link in the browser to complete the registration.

> **What this does:**

Reviewer: This might be more before the procedure. Maybe made in to a sentence like:
> Use this procedure to create a secure session with dbt. dbt will automatically detect your account and `dbt_cloud.yml` file if it exists (no file download needed). Use to easily work across machines.

- Creates a secure session with dbt.
- Automatically detects your account and `dbt_cloud.yml` file if it exists (no file download needed).
- Easiest to keep working across machines.

**When you might still need a `dbt_cloud.yml`:**
- You want a file-based credential for automations.
- You're on the free Developer plan and your workflow needs a local credential file for defer.
- Your region requires it (for example, regions like `eu1` or `us2`).

> ---

Reviewer: should we remove this line?
```suggestion
```

#### Recover your login 

Choose this path if the registration form tells you your email already exists but you don't remember your password or your account is locked.

> What you'll do: Reset your password → sign in through the OAuth flow → return to VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reset your password and sign in through the OAuth flow:
```

1. On the sign-in screen, click **Forgot password**.
2. Enter the email associated with your dbt account.
3. Check your inbox and reset your password.
4. Return to the sign in screen in the browser and complete the sign-in process.
5. If you've signed in, you will then have the option to select your existing dbt account.
6. Select the account you want to use and click **Continue**.
7. You should automatically be redirected to the editor and see **`Registered`**. If you're not redirected, click on the redirect link in the browser to complete the registration.

**If you still can't sign in:**
- Your account may be locked. Contact [dbt Support](mailto:support@getdbt.com) to unlock.
- After unlocking, continue with the registration flow as described in [Sign in with your existing dbt account](#existing-dbt-account).

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Register with `dbt_cloud.yml` {#register-with-dbt_cloudyml}

Use this if you can't sign in to your dbt account, your org uses a non-default region (`eu1`, `us2`), or your workflow requires a credential file.

What you'll do: Download the `dbt_cloud.yml` file, place it in your `.dbt` directory, and run the registration command.

1. Log in to <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> and open **Account settings** → **VS Code extension**.
2. In the **Set up your credentials** section, click **Download credentials** to get `dbt_cloud.yml` file.
    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/extension/download-registration-2.png" width="70%" title="Download the dbt_cloud.yml file from your dbt platform account."/>
3. Move the file into your dbt directory:
    - macOS/Linux: `~/.dbt/dbt_cloud.yml`
    - Windows: `C:\Users\[username]\.dbt\`

    For help creating/moving the `.dbt` directory, see [this FAQ](#how-to-create-a-dbt-directory-in-root-and-move-dbt_cloudyml-file).

4. Return to the VS Code editor, open the command palette and run: **dbt: Register dbt extension**.
5. The extension will detect the credential file and you can continue with the registration flow.

> **Behavior details:**

Reviewer: This is helpful!
